So the last thing I wanna talk
about before we jump in and
start writing some code is the difference
between app and library concerns.
So we're on section
three of the notes now.
First, I wanna dispel a couple myths here.
They may seem true at first, but
it is my experience that When TypeScript
is used for a non trivial app,
these things do not really hold up.
So, first is the idea that TypeScript
is a cure all for runtime errors.
Like you will not have errors at runtime
anymore because you use TypeScript.
False.
So all TypeScript does is
it catches a subset of
errors that have to do with type checking,
and it surfaces them to you earlier.
Particularly because you can
get unexpected API responses.
Maybe a user's attempting to run your app
in a browser that you didn't
officially aim to support.
Maybe they're trying to use IE11 and
you built for chrome, right?
These are the kinds of things that will
absolutely cause runtime errors and
TypeScript can't do a thing about them.
In fact, TypeScript has no role
whatsoever in your app at runtime.
It disappears after you built.
So I want to dispel that,
because it's important to understand
what TypeScript can't do.
Just as you wanna
understand what it can do.
The second myth I wanted to dispel is
the idea that TypeScript makes your code
much faster.
Now, it does encourage
practices that will reduce
the likelihood of modern browsers,
deoptimizing your code.
But I want you to listen to how many
qualifiers I added to that statement.
So a modern browser,
when it takes your app
might pick 12 functions and optimize
the most common functions that are used.
So if you're using something like React,
almost all of those are going to be things
in the React library, not your app
code that get optimized, right,
React create class, right?
Invoke that all the time or
create element.
Those are what get optimized.
Now, TypeScript will encourage you
to write code that is less likely to
ruin that, but it's not going to make the
rest of your code, the vast majority of it
that is not effectively converted
to assembly and reused.
It's not going to get your
whole app into that hot state.
And I do see that this is a common
misconception that people have.
They basically think that, if I convert
my code from JavaScript to TypeScript,
we're gonna get rid of all of our errors.
Will never ever again and
we're gonna be lightning fast.
That is a great way to set
expectations way too high, and
particularly the business side
of your engineering company,
that's a great way to promise too much
something you can't possibly deliver on.
Alright, so now that we get that out of
the way, let's talk about things that
are commonly concerns that you
might look for common benefits.
Regardless of whether you're
building a library or
an app, you probably have these.
So you want an improved
developer experience sorry.
You want an improved developer experience,
tooltips,
autocompletes things like that
TypeScript does a great job with this.
TypeScript reduces the need
to context switch.
So the fact that information
is surface to you inlined
into your authoring process, right?
The autocomplete,
the misuse of certain functions,
right where you're not passing
in the right arguments.
That saves you from having to sort of
drill into all these other files and
figure out how things work
by reading the source code.
And it allows you to maintain your
focus on what you're working on.
This is probably the most
important one for me.
It's a little subtle, but
it's extremely powerful micro rigor
that adds up to macro benefits.
What that means is at a large scale,
there's just way too much code for
any person to keep in their mind and
to keep track of and to deeply
understand all the little caveats,
you cannot possibly master
all of that at once.
The fact that TypeScript lets you encode
more information into your source
files, right?
The guarantees that you're providing,
the usage that you wish to support.
I only wanna accept these
kinds of arguments.
The fact that that makes
it into your source code.
We're in the JavaScript
world that does not.
It allows you to sort of make sure
that all of the building blocks
work well individually.
And you see benefits across
an extremely large code base,
where all of that adds up
to a lot of assurance you
have that these things fit together the
way that they're meant to fit together.
I think that this would be
flat out impossible without
this type of information.
Eventually, you're gonna lose track
of how all these blocks work.
So, the idea of having more formalized and
stable contracts between things.
This is important for libraries where
you know when things are changing and
you can have discussions about
the shape that change should take
as opposed to just tacking on one
more function one more method.
And that's how you end up with
libraries that feel like they were half
written by one person and half another.
All right, I have some points here
about coloring inside the lines and
this effectively is different
flavors of things that
type checking helps to make easier, right?
Incomplete refactorings if everyone
here hasn't experienced TypeScript,
catching an incomplete refactor,
thought I updated all the places where I
use this function, but
there are two things that I forgot about.
I think that's one of the first benefits
that teams realize that they start
to ramp up and tetrick.
If you don't experience that often,
you must use TypeScript in
a very different way than I do.
So let's talk about app specific concerns.
And when we talk about an app.
I mean,
something that is a leaf level dependency.
No one depends on it.
No one is including an app in
some other package JSON, right?
So apps are usually where data happens,
right?
You're fetching.
You're getting back in a JSON response.
You're working with that.
So, this is where you feel
TypeScript benefits in this area.
You get better encapsulation tools
like the idea of private protected and
public or abstract classes, right?
And you get the ability to use the type
of imports that we just talked about.
So you make sure that your lazy loading
boundaries aren't accidentally crossed,
and you're not accidentally
slowing your app down by just,
effectively having one big, single,
giant bundle of JavaScript.
You get a better story around upgrading
to accommodate braking changes.
So if you go from lodash 3.to lodash
4.you can install that dependency,
update your types.
And immediately you have a to do list
of what needs to change in order to
accommodate that upgrade, you know where
the incompatibilities had been introduced.
For the most part,
those that are type based.
This is something that's felt
in the library use case too, but
just far less often,
given that apps often have a tremendously
larger number of dependencies
compared to libraries.
So let's talk about
library specific concerns.
Libraries have a public API surface and
particularly if you're trying
to practice semantic versioning,
TypeScript lets you make sure
you're honoring your guarantees.
Meaning you can set up tests that
represent usage of your library.
And it's a lot easier when
that type information is there
to make sure that things continue to work
the way you intended for them to work.
You can communicate a public API surface.
You can use things like
string literal types and
numeric literal types and
enums to keep your users on track, right?
So if you're talking about the layout
library and you have different corners,
you can say top left, top right,
bottom left, bottom right,
you don't take an arbitrary string.
It's only one of those four
strings that is allowed.
So you can really express what you
want to allow your users to do.
And that's encoded into
the type information.
API documentation is a big deal.
We're gonna see this today using some
tools that you probably haven't used
before, but TypeScript sort of
incentivizes, great API docs.
Because the information to
generate API docs is the same
as what you're already interested in for
a great developer experience.
What are my arguments?
How do these tooltips look, right?
You want VS code to feel great as
you're working with your code.
That same information can make
its way into API documentation.